6084 - Texas Woman's University - Platinum

Project Manager Notes from Pre-Kickoff Call:



Art Director:





Designer:

Wants the brand voice to be more “real”

Wants students to have a feeling of belonging. They’re a campus with a heart.

Will supplement the in-person orientation, will be mandatory for the transfer population.

Will be using platform also for their new group base, dual-enrollment.

T-dub is informal acronym. Perhaps use with Quick Tip? Also uses TWU.

Wants students to feel confident in their choice to attend TWU and that the support/resources are their for their access.

Nation’s largest woman-focused educational system.

Has a mix of age group attending TWU. Many of which live far away and cannot attend the in-person orientation.

Has a very diverse population of ages/ethnicities.

All sports are women sports; not huge sports event fanbase on-campus.

Private school feel at a public cost.

Photography highlights: A balance of athletics facilities, student parent with child, campus scenery, show a male. Just a nice general variety of photography.

Would like some concepts showing multiple images, not just one large image.

Would like to not be a lot of clutter, no collage feeling (perhaps single photo okay if needed), clean. If using one image use open space & white space.

Do not make grid-like or like a collage.

Tagline = Boldly Go. Would like on all the concepts. Use viewbooks for visual reference.

Mascot = Oakly the Owl. Use in orientation somewhere.  Likes their mascot and all campuses are familiar with the mascot.

This orientation will be after acceptance, but before classes start & registration.

Any shade of gray can be used along with primary maroon & white, DO NOT use any green or accent colors.

Open to nice animations & transitions.  New upcoming campaign will actually use a lot of animations. Perhaps GSAP owl mascot?

Would like it to perhaps be more interactive and fun.



Copywriter:

Many of their students come from difficult socio-economic backgrounds and are largely first-gen, transfer, and dual enrollment. This orientation is likely to be used by dual enrollment students and transfer students, will likely be mandatory, and will likely also be seen by parents. The feel they are going for is one of belonging, as if the students (no matter their student type) are part of the family and are confident in that choice. “T-dub" is the Campus with a Heart and we can refer to them as that nickname, as TWU, or as Texas Woman’s. Some of their students come back as a second chance opportunity and they have many students with “quirky-type” status who are largely not directly traditional students. 

This orientation will be used first for students who live 300+ miles away. They also serve minority students and are Hispanic serving. Photographs should reflect all the different populations that they serve—males, a mother with a child, a female athlete...basically present a wide variety of students that each incoming student can identify with. The Denton campus will be using this orientation. Oakley the owl is a well-loved and well-known mascot and should be used.  



Video: