Job: 6081 - University of Montana – Platinum



Project Manager Notes from Pre-Kickoff Call:

Main point of contact - Devin Carpenter

Project delivery for the first week of August.

Client lead is a decision-maker so he is certain he can stick to the schedule.

We discussed section 8 – since they will be supplying content and scripts. I will send the ADG script guide. 

Client is clear about the scope.

I explained the ADG production process and the timeline. 



Art Director: CAF – 3-20-2023

General Notes:
Launch Date of August 2023

CONTACTS: client is 1-person office - Devin Carpenter, Sydney Hovenkotter, John Massena, Andy Chapman – brand director, Joey Crowley IT

Info... https://www.umt.edu/about/ 

Consistent voice, aspect is playful is formidable.  We take ourselves seriously, but not too seriously. They want us to look at the writing styles in the brand guide.

Casual, 18-year-old, I’m a cool adult style.  

High caliber place with a lot of scholarship and research happening here.

University of Montana embraced combinations of emotions and context of living here

Respectful, responsible, creative, strategic, active and easygoing.  

Pillars have dualities – we are playful and serious.  “The emotionality of a grizzly bear”  

Missoula is a very artsy community.  Arts and Culture hub of the state, and it carries into the students. 

The outdoors is a huge part of why people come here.  They can study and engage in the outdoors.

We serve 40% are First Generation students.  The language should be as accessible as possible for people that don’t speak “higher education”

12 sovereign nations of indigenous communities.  Largest underrepresented group.  

Admissions end – How prepared we are for them; we want to help them prepare.  Get them ready for the start of the year.

The number 1 college of business in the Big Sky conference

Number 1 wildlife and biology program in the country for the last 5 years

Some of the only BFA in Montana 

We’re number 1 for community and national service – goes with orientation programs with the “Big Sky Experience” Public service is a big one.

Top plant and animal and computer science.  

They called Montana State “Little brothers”

Lots of cool streamlined programs 

Localized view as arts, but we’re R1 research institution

Counter misaligned perception

70% placement of med students.  

30% of Missoula MT are alumni.

Iconic locations – 3 rivers go through towns, “The clark forth wave” 

European style campus - big oval in the center

Grizzly bear statue that looks at old main

Behind it a giant M on Mount Sentinel

Student experiences – Freshman Float – they all get on the river.

Homecoming traditions, Hello Walk, Yell Night, Flashlights on the M. 

Third Quarter Pizza Passes and Bonfire

Freshman Jersey #37

Build as Evergreen

Goals:

Emotions to experience – Feel excited to come here.   Feel more prepared.  Not so transactional.

Themes and Taglines:

Have them look at the new website.  https://umontana.edu/index-oss-notwue.php?redirect=1 

Use the guidelines, there are a few to log in

They will follow back up!

“What’s made in Montana is remaking the world”

Mascot

Info... https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Monte_(mascot) Monte the Grizzly Bear.  They are the Grizzlies.  “He’s a silly goober” They would love to use him.   

Demographics

... First Year, Transfer, Adult Learners, Veterans – We want to make sure we show a good variety of age and ability diversity.  

DEI, Bystander and Title IX section added.  Diversity is super important on this project.



Graphic Notes:

 Fact sheet site – very fun illustrative design, great color scheme
 https://meet.umontana.edu/?utm_source=google&utm_medium=display&utm_campaign=simpscar-fy23engage&utm_content=perf_max&gclid=CjwKCAjwiOCgBhAgEiwAjv5whN6tea1uthuJlijSPzCTUQ1aBbrDqmKZAZKJU3hLSFbeEjh-yZtrohoCW5MQAvD_BwE

https://www.umt.edu/ 

Colors https://www.umt.edu/brand/colors.php

Fonts https://www.umt.edu/brand/fonts.php

University of Montana Logos https://www.umt.edu/brand/university_marks/default.php

Retro style, bold color scheme, color treatments to the photography, amorphous waves forming engaging shapes and spaces to imagery or text spaces.

Interesting sketched and illustrative elements combined with the crisp edges of the vector elements – Any specific icons or graphics we can get to use in this style would be great.

Primarily solid colors, but they have “Snowbowl Silver” Glacier Sky with a directional feathered gradient.  Is it locked to the right to left gradient or can it be used in multiple directions or angles depending on the situation?

They have a photo shelter account!!!  

Example video provided in chat: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lL8rMcZmT18 

umontana.edu is the site they asked us to look at to help guide the brand.  

Put on the needs list a question regarding the color usage of the snowbowl silver gradient. 












Designer: KS

Pre Meeting Notes: 

Added an 8th section on inclusion and equity

Will have videos that come with it

They will supply all of the copy for this section but we are doing the rest

Testimonial videos



Devin – NSO

Andy – Brand

Sydney – Communications

John – Dean of something?

Things I notice...

LOTS of interactivity

Outside of the box

Brand voice 

Consistency with recruiting and enrollment process is playful and formidable

Take ourselves seriously but not too seriously

Casual, I’m a cool adult sort of style

Casual place with high caliber research happening

Emotions

Excited, confident, student’s feel overwhelmed at the super long welcome week so this is to supplement some of that content

Not transactional

Words

Embraced combination of emotions, respectful, curious and wise, active and easy-going

There is a duality – we can be playful but also serious

Emotionality of a grizzly bear

Community

Mizzula is an artsy community

Outdoors are a huge part of why students go there

Wanna be a doctor but like to kayak on weekends

About 40% of students are 1st generation

Indigenous community is big part of culture

Largest underrepresented group are indigenous 

Admissions pushed how prepared they are for them and are trying to prepare them

#1 college of business in Big Sky

Ranked #1 biology program in the country

Some of the only BFA programs in Montana

Public service is a big item

Animal sciences, computer science – poking fun at montana state

Lots of school streamlines doctorate programs

30% of residents of missula are alumni so there is a really big connection to the community

Visuals

Beautiful vistas so photography 

The Oval

Grizzly Bear statue

Giant M on mount sentinal

How is this being used

This will be called New Student Orientation and the week they go to is call the Bug Sky Experience

All of the nuts and bolts things like housing and immunizations will already be done.

Registration hold item

Design

Look at new website for recruitment - https://umontana.edu/

Monte is a silly goober mascot

Have fun photos of Monte holding signs

Fonts

Covik Sans

Swear Text

Needs

Brand guide

Photography and access to photoshelter

Viewbooks, brochures, mailers, etc. Basically, any examples of how your brand being used.

We looked at the fonts used on the website provided and we do have access to the Covik and Swear Text fonts through Adobe but do not have access to Baton. If this is part of yoru brand that you would like to use in the orientation, please provide





Copywriter:

University of Montana (UM) sets a playful tone in their communications that is casual. They take themselves seriously but not too seriously. Orientation users should feel excited, more prepared, not overwhelmed, and confident. Enrollment of indigenous students is growing—grew by 25% last year—they need the communication accessible to that community and the large number of first-year students. #1 College of Business in Big Sky region for 7 years. #1 in the nation for community and national service (Big Sky Experience). Public service is integrated to their culture. Top Animal Science & Computer Science. 4+2 Doctor of Pharmacy...programs where students can accelerate quickly. 70% placement of med degrees...23% above national average. 33% of the residents are alumni—big connection between community and campus, especially in College of Business. Three rivers go through town—Clark Fork Wave is a feature. European-style campus with a grassy oval in middle with metal grizzly bear statue. Big letter M on hill to showcase tiny town. Freshman Float is a new tradition. Hike up Mt Sentinel and highlight the M with flashlights. Forester’s Ball. 3rd Quarter Pizza Pass. Jersey 37. Bear Tracks is what students are already working on for pre-orientation. This ADG orientation is the new orientation with a separate on–campus orientation. Current student experience: umontana.edu. Monte the bear mascot is a super fun element to incorporate. Style/Music vibe example here: Investing in Montana's Future: The Grizzly Promise Scholarship









Video: